Here’s  this week’s update from the washingtonpost.com newsroom.  If you
have links to pass along, or  questions you’d like to see addressed in
future e-mails (or at the November 1  open houses), please drop me a line
at jim.brady@washingtonpost.com.





NOV. 1 OPEN HOUSE  REMINDER

In order to continue  to improve the dialogue between the newspaper and
the site,  washingtonpost.com will be holding four open houses at the
newspaper on November 1. The purpose of these open  houses will be to
discuss the site's content strategy, challenges, traffic,  examples of
successful Post-Post.com collaborative efforts and other topics.  We'll
then answer as many questions as you can send our  way.



Food will be provided  at each of the meetings, which will be held in the
Post auditorium on the second  floor.



The sessions will be  held at the following times:

   10:30am-noon
   noon-1:30pm
   2:30-4pm
   4-5:30pm



RECENT LAUNCHES   (updates  in red)

   10/21: Video podcasting RSS feed (
   http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/mmedia/vipod.xml  (FYI, this is a
   link to the RSS feed, not a page with  content)
   10/14:Tom Sietsma’s Dining Guide (
   http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/artsandliving/entertainmentguide/features/2005/diningguide/index.html
   )
   10/10:IPod version of Entertainment  Guide. (
   http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/artsandliving/entertainmentguide/togo/index.html
   )
   10/4: Vagablog,  cross-country travelogue (
   http://blogs.washingtonpost.com/vagablog2/)
   10/3: The  Fix, our daily political blog. (
   http://blogs.washingtonpost.com/thefix/)
   10/3: Wizards  Journal, a NBA blog by The Post’s Ivan Carter (
   http://blogs.washingtonpost.com/wizardsjournal/)
   10/3: Car  review database (
   http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/linkset/2005/08/01/LI2005080101326.html
   )
   9/21: Entertainment  News redesign. (
   http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/artsandliving/entertainmentnews/index.html
   )





TIPS OF THE  WEEK

Finding Your Articles on  washingtonpost.com: One of the more consistent
complaints we get from the newsroom is how difficult it can be to find
articles  using search. Part of the issue is that, as I’ve mentioned to
many of you, our  news search is not where it needs to be. We will be
starting work on fixing that  soon after the new city guide launches this
week.



But this is an area where we'd like  to ask each of you to help us out. For
those who do not know, we are able to add  “wildcards” to certain search
terms to assure that a link to them shows up at  the top of a search
return. For example, if you put “Carolyn Hax” into search,  you will see
two links at the top: Live  Discussion: Tell Me About It with Carolyn Hax
and Carolyn  Hax: Tell Me About It. These  are wildcards, and are manually
added to these search terms. Wildcards are  easy to spot; they're always at
the top of the list, and they generally are just  headlines with no text
underneath.



So  what we were hoping each of you do to is to plug in – using quote marks
around the terms – your name and the name of any column you write, and see
whether these “wildcards” appear. We don’t do wildcards specifically for
reporter’s names – since any search for the reporter’s name should return
their  articles from the past two weeks anyway – but we would add in
wildcards for  column names or weekly live discussions with reporters. So,
here's an example on  what we'd like to ask everyone to do, using Joel
Achenbach as an  example:

   Enter  "Joel Achenbach": Achenblog and Rough Draft appear as wildcards
   at the top.  This is correct.
   Enter  "Achenbach:" Only Joel's articles, and articles that have
   mentioned Joel,  appear here. This is an issue, and we should add
   "Achenblog" and "Rough Draft"  wildcards to this search term.
   Enter  "Achenblog": Achenblog does not appear as a wildcard. It should.
   Enter  "Rough Draft": Rough Draft does appear as a wildcard, so this is
   correct.

If you  find examples where a wildcard would be useful, drop me an email
and we'll get  them in the queue.



Post.com Visits: A few of you have asked about coming  over to Arlingtonto
get a tour of post.com and to meet  some of our staffers. We don’t have a
formal tour schedule, but if you’d like to  come over, we’d love to have
you, so if you’re interested, drop me an  e-mail.





WORTH A  PEEK

   http://www.copyscape.com/: This site allows you to check  whether other
   sites are plagiarizing washingtonpost.com – or any other site,  for that
   matter.
   http://virtualearth.msn.com/: A Web  version of Google Earth. To get
   started, enter the Post’s address, then zoom  in close and switch to the
   Aerial Photo mode. Cool, yet creepy.



POST.COM  PRESS ROOM



   http://lawprofessors.typepad.com/law_librarian_blog/2005/10/washington_post.html
   http://zahmad.blogspot.com/2005/10/ladners-fall-is-posts-gain.html



OTHER  NEWS

Traffic

   Since the launch of our new  Opinions area in mid-August, weekly page
   views are up 40 percent and unique  visitors are up 50 percent across
   the entire Opinions content set (fronts,  columns, editorials, Outlook).
   The New York Times announced  September page views for NYTimes.com, and
   while they still hold a significant  lead in page views on
   washingtonpost.com, we’re closing the gap. Here are  September page
   views, and year-over-year increases:
         NYTimes.com: 561 million (17  percent increase from Sept. 2004)
         Washingtonpost.com: 255  million (33 percent increase from Sept.
         2004

Personnel

   Amanda Zamora, most recently a  producer for the Metro section, has been
   named World Editor and will take over  in mid-November.
   Michael Smith started as a  part-timer on the overnight shift on 10/24.

Publishing  System

   Orbit continues to see improved  stability, and bugs continue to be
   fixed. The next release will be on  11/2.

Podcasting

   There’s been a lot of buzz about  podcasting, i.e. the ability to
   download any audio or video file to an iPod.  As mentioned earlier, we
   have created an RSS feed for video podcasting. We’re  prototyping three
   different audio podcasts as we speak. If anyone’s interested  in
   learning more about what news sites are doing audio podcasting, attached
   to  this mail is a spreadsheet that lists many of them.
