Here’s  this week’s update from the washingtonpost.com newsroom.  If you
have links to pass along, or  questions you’d like to see addressed in this
email, please drop me a line at jim.brady@washingtonpost.com.





OTHER TRAFFIC  FACTS

·          Here  were the two highest-traffic Post-written articles on
washingtonpost.com in  October:

o         Withdraw  This Nominee, by Charles Krauthammer (246,000 page
views)

o         Miers,  Under Fire From Right, Withdrawn as Court Nominee, by
Michael Fletcher and Charles  Babington (206,000 page views)

·        Washingtonpost.com solidified its  local standing in October. It
remained the dominant news site locally, with  CNN.com the only other news
site to make the top 30 URLs in Washington. But we  expanded our lead over
CNN in four of our key metrics, and narrowed the gap on a  fifth:

o         Unique  local audience: washingtonpost.com 857,838; CNN 694,768

o         Local  page views: washingtonpost.com 59,877,404; CNN 29,696,042

o         Pages per  local user: washingtonpost.com 70; CNN 43

o         Visits  per local user: washingtonpost.com 13.15; CNN 13.22

o         Time per  local user: washingtonpost.com 1 hour 11 minutes 46
seconds; CNN 40 minutes 32  seconds.

·          A few  more facts off the October Nielsen report.

o         Among our  competitive set, which includes CNN, MSNBC, the New
York Times, USA Today, Fox  News, Slate and Newsweek:

§          On  average, there was an 8 percent decline in unique visitors.
Washingtonpost.com’s  October decline was in this range.

§          On  average, there was a 10 percent drop in page views.
Washingtonpost.com had only  0.2 percent decline.

§          On  average, there was a 2 percent increase in visits per
visitor.  Washingtonpost.com had a 19 percent increase.

§          On  average, there was a 5 percent decline in time spent.
Washingtonpost.com had a 23 percent  increase.





RECENT LAUNCHES   (new launches in red)

   11/28:Our  first Post foreign  correspondent video, via Kevin Sullivan.
   11/24:Post.blog, an internal  blog is where we’ll post news of new
   launches or any other key issues relating  to washingtonpost.com.
   11/24:Post Remix, a tech  developer site for washingtonpost.com. This is
   an area where we make our RSS  feeds available to outside developers to
   see what interesting ways they can  come up with to use the data to
   build new site tools. Among the interesting  ideas we’ve already seen. A
   automated  news quiz, a world news  map that collections stories by
   region by using our Foreign RSS feed, and  a way to navigate articles by
   clicking on key words.
   11/22:Holiday  Tech Gift Guide
   11/20: Redskins in-game play-by-play
   11/14: Seasoned  Greeetings holiday food blog
   11/9:Site-wide navigation on  printer-friendly pages (EXAMPLE:
   http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2005/11/15/AR2005111501842_pf.html
   )
   11/7: Small  business live  discussion series
   11/7: Interactive  Sudoku
   11/2: Drop-down navigation redesign and  relaunch across site. This
   functionality previously only existed on the home  page.
   11/2:New Jobs  release
   10/28: High school sports statistical  databases, including the main
   search page, overall  stats and the top  20 roundup.
   10/26: City  Guide



TIP OF THE  WEEK

   Faceted Search in City  Guide: One of the terrific new  features in the
   City  Guide is the ease in which you can refine your search. For
   example, if you  enter “restaurants,” you’ll see a box on the upper left
   of the return page  that will say “restaurants.” If you then add other
   terms into the “Refine by  keyword” box, i.e. Bethesda, Thai, etc.,
   you’ll see those listed  in that same box. But if you later decide you
   don’t necessarily care about  eating in Bethesda, you can click the “x”
   next  to Bethesda, and it re-runs your search with  all the other
   criteria still intact, but without Bethesda. This makes it  much easier
   to refine searches without starting from  scratch.



 POST/POST.COM  WINS

·          Working  closely with The Post’s business section, the Holiday
Tech Guide features a  nicely designed main  page. Also, to make it easier
for readers to stay engaged with the package,  we used what we call the
“top strip” on all pages (here’s an  example) to keep assure navigation to
other parts of the guide was always  available.

·          Working  closely with Investigative, we built out some important
additional content for  the Afghanistan rebuilding story by Joe  Stephens
and David Ottaway, including a video  piece, an interactive  map and a
photo gallery. Again, we used the top strip to package all the  elements
nicely.





WORTH A  PEEK

   Alexa: This site has a handful of features,  but the one that’s
   interesting is the traffic rankings area. It’s not as  scientific as
   Nielsen, but does provide some interesting data. Currently,
   washingtonpost.com is ranked as the 183rd most popular site on the
   Internet.
   Google Base: Still in beta,  this is Google’s classifieds upload system.



PRESS  ROOM

   A Lifeline Online:
   http://www.signonsandiego.com/news/business/20051127-9999-lz1b27theweb.html
   Craigslist founder planning Net-based news  venture:
   http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2005/11/24/BUG2NFT6GR1.DTL&feed=rss.business
